---
title: Theme Bootstrap Process
---

When using `Nx-Shopify`, the theme's CSS styles and JavaScript scripts are loaded automatically for you. You do not need to move a finger. However, is still important to understand how this process is done in case of needed modifications.

:::tip

If you want to follow this explanation step-by-step, it is recommended to generate a theme so you can read the code by your self 🙂

`nx g @trafilea/nx-shopify:theme my-theme`

:::

## The main.ts file

The `main.ts` file is the, well, main entrypoint of a `Nx-Shopify` theme. This is the very first code that is executed when a theme is loaded by a web browser.

For a recently generated theme, the `main.ts` content should look something similar to this:

```typescript title="src/main.ts"
__webpack_public_path__ = window['__webpack_public_path__'];

import { themeBootstrapFactory } from '@my-org/my-theme/core/theme-bootstrap';
import { themeLayouts } from '@my-org/my-theme/theme/layout';
import { themeTemplates } from '@my-org/my-theme/theme/templates';

window['themeBootstrap'] = themeBootstrapFactory(themeLayouts, themeTemplates);
```

This file fullfills two key responsabilities:

1. Make the webpack public path available to webpack.
2. Define the global themeBootstrap function that will load the rest of our code.

Let's break this down...

### Webpack public path

The top-level `__webpack_public_path__` variable is used to tell `webpack`, at run-time, what URL path it should look to download the rest of the chunks that will be loaded later (lazy loaded chunks).

As you may notice, this URL path comes from a window global variable called the same way. But, where does the value come from? The answer is that Nx-Shopify does this for you:

For every built theme, two special snippets are created:

```diff {16,17}
dist/apps/my-theme
 ├── assets
 │   ├── (...)
 │   └── main.77d0b739d857080b2b1e.js
 ├── config
 │   └── (...)
 ├── config.yml
 ├── layout
 │   └── (...)
 ├── locales
 │   └── (...)
 ├── sections
 │   └── (...)
 ├── snippets
 │   ├── (...)
+│   ├── script-tags.liquid
+│   └── webpack-public-path.liquid
 └── templates
     └── (...)
```

#### `snippets/script-tags.liquid`

This snippet renders the `webpack-public-path` snippet content and also adds the script tag that loads the `main.ts` entrypoint generated by webpack.

```html
{% render 'webpack-public-path' %}

<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="{{ 'main.77d0b739d857080b2b1e.js' | asset_url }}"
  defer="defer"
></script>
```

#### `snippets/webpack-public-path.liquid`

This particular snippet executes a liquid code in charge of getting the base path of the Shopify's CDN url where the assets are located and assign it to the `window.__webpack_public_path__` global variable.

```html
{% assign randomFile = 'randomFile.js' | asset_url %} {% assign cdnPath =
randomFile | split: 'assets/randomFile.js' | first %}
<script>
  window.__webpack_public_path__ = '{{ cdnPath }}';
</script>
```

Once the above runs, webpack knows where to download the rest of our code chunks.

### themeBootstrap function

As shown in the `main.ts` assignment, the `themeBootstrap` function is created using a factory function inside the `src/core` directory called `themeBootstrapFactory`.

The `themeBootstrapFactory` function is a [high order function](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-quick-intro-to-higher-order-functions-in-javascript-1a014f89c6b/) that receives the theme `registeredLayouts` and `registeredTemplates` as arguments (see next section) and returns a function that takes a `ShopifyBootstrapOptions` object used to initialize the theme, which will be the `themeBootstrap` function.

## Theme layouts & templates Objects

The `registeredLayouts` and `registeredTemplates` objects are reponsible of making the layout and templates TypeScript code available to the `themeBootstrap` function.

The composition of these objetcs are a key-value pairs. Each key corresponds to the name of the layout or template that will be loaded and the value is a function that uses webpack's dynamic import syntax to load the respective theme block, that function will be invoked by the `themeBootstrap` function.

Example:

```typescript
const registeredTemplates = {
  index: () => import('./index/index.template').then((m) => m.IndexTemplate),
  blog: () => import('./blog/blog.template').then((m) => m.BlogTemplate),
};
```

These objects are defined, by default, in the following files:

- `src/theme/layout/theme-layouts.ts`
- `src/theme/templates/theme-templates.ts`

## Calling the themeBootstrap function

The `themeBootstrap` global function defined in the `src/main.ts` file is wired to take care of the theme initialization as explained above. Now, when is this function called?

At the end of every layout liquid file, a script tag contains the JavaScript code that calls the `themeBootstrap` function.

```html {6-13}
<html>
  ...
  <body>
    ...
    <script>
      window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
        window.themeBootstrap({
            themeLayoutName: 'theme',
            themeTemplateName: '{{ template }}',
            themeContext: {% render 'theme-context' %},
            loadGlobal: true,
        });
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Notice that the `ShopifyBootstrapOptions` argument is passed and it contains:

- The layout name that should be loaded
- The template name that should be loaded
- The `ThemeContext` object (rendered by a snippet)
- The `loadGlobal` flag

:::tip

Learn more about the `ThemeContext` object at the [Liquid To TypeScript Context](../guides/liquid-to-ts-context) guide

:::

When the `loadGlobal` flag is set to true, the `ThemeGlobalModule` found in the `./src/global` will be loaded for any layout/template.
